Chapter 1 starts out by looking at the challenges that  journeys to the cloud have thrown at organizations and why - with edge making its way in every industry - we can’t continue the same way we embarked on cloud journeys. We urge leadership to stay away from confusing marketing slogans like ‘cloud first' and explain why we have this stance.

We demystify terms like strategy, tactics, mission, vision, goals, capability and objectives. And not just that, we also connect them together and show the relationship between those terms and concepts.
We then revisit research on organizational cultures conducted by Dr Ron Westrum and how to create performance-oriented cultures and high performing teams. We did this because it is the reason why we chose the workshop practices we outline in this book. And to be precise, it’s to help create a culture with a high level of collaboration, information sharing and open communication. Because research has shown that those features are the enablers for high performing teams and organizations. And by the way those are the intrinsic traits of the open source movement.

After that we take the Operating Model topic by its horn and face it head on. We go through a rich set of examples from different consulting companies to look at their approaches and the way they define key components of an operating model: The Operating Model Dimensions. 

The examples are meant to help the reader build confidence that whichever dimensions you choose you can rest assured that choosing the best-fit dimensions for your organization is automatically the most likely approach to be successful. In order to help you get a handle on the vast number of dimensions we grouped them into streams. This will help you to assemble and group your stakeholders. As an extra, we extended the Business Motivation Model meta model to show how an Operating Model can fit in with your strategy, and organizational capabilities that you need to execute your projects and programs.

We expand the operating model topic into the cloud and edge realm and define edge computing.
Chapter 1 defines key terms that we need for the book, but also emphasizes the fact that within a buzzword rich industry, organizations are well advised to define a shared vocabulary across teams. Key terms included Engineering and Operations, distinguished between platform and product engineering and Site Realiability Engineering (SRE). We aim to help transform some buzzwords along the way into tangible relevant topics for you. Terms and topics you should ask every vendor to be clear about. This is not just a mechanism to unlock organizational capabilities but also a foundational means to practice an inclusive high performing culture because - with a common vocabulary - everyone is able to understand, discuss and contribute with regards to what the organization is going through once semantics are attached to the terminology used.
The chapter gets rounded out with thoughts on how to construct metrics, teaming and how Conway's law affects your architecture.

